KNOWLEDGE BASE: 
 
 CENTRAL HOSPITAL OVERVIEW 
Central Hospital is a trusted healthcare institution committed to delivering exceptional 
medical care with compassion and efficiency. Equipped with state-of-the-art technology 
and a team of expert doctors and staff, it offers comprehensive services across 
specialties. Whether it’s routine check-ups or emergency care, Central Hospital ensures a 
seamless and comforting patient experience. 
1. What are the hospital/clinic’s visiting hours? 
 Our visiting hours are from 4pm to 7pm, but they may vary based on the department and 
patient condition. ICU and special care units have restricted visiting hours. Please check 
with the nurse’s station for specific guidelines. 
2. What are the hospital’s operating hours? 
 Our hospital operates 24/7 for emergency services. However, outpatient department 
(OPD) and administrative hours are from 9am to 6pm, depending on the department. You 
can call us to check specific timings by clicking on our live agent. Would you like to book 
an appointment? 

3. Do you have parking facilities? 
 Yes, we have parking spaces available for patients and visitors. There is also a dedicated 
emergency parking zone near the entrance. 
5. Which doctors are available today? 
Doctor availability changes daily. You can check the latest schedule on our website or call 
our helpline for real-time updates byclickingon the live agent. 
6. Can I get a same-day appointment? 
 Same-day appointments depend on the doctor’s availability. You can check that by 
clicking on the live agent. Would you like to book an appointment? 
7. What are the consultation fees? 
 Consultation fees vary depending on the doctor and specialty.  
8. Does the hospital have a specialist in Neurology? 
 Yes, we have specialists in the Neurology department, offering services like stroke 
management, epilepsy treatment, and neuro-rehabilitation. 
10. Do you have 24/7 emergency services? 
 Yes, our emergency department is open 24/7 with doctors and medical staff available at 
all times. Emergency medicine specialists are on standby to handle critical cases. 
11. Do you have an ambulance service available? 
 Yes, we have an ambulance service that operates 24/7. Call our emergency helpline 999-
 999-9999 for immediate assistance. Or click on the live agent to book an ambulance.  
12. Do I need to book an appointment for emergency cases? 
 No appointment is required for emergency cases. You can walk into our emergency 
department at any time, and our medical team will assist you immediately. 
13. Is there an ICU available? 
 Yes, we have ICU beds equipped with advanced life-support systems. Please check with 
our admission team for availability. 
14. Does the hospital have a specialist in Orthopedics? 
 Yes, we have specialists in the Orthopedic department. Would like to book an 
appointment? 

15. Do you have a maternity ward? 
 Yes, we have a fully equipped maternity ward with labor rooms, postnatal care, and 
neonatal intensive care units (NICU). Would you like to book an appointment? 
16. Is there a pediatrician available? 
Yes, we have experienced pediatricians specializing in newborn and adolescent care. 
Would you like to book an appointment for your child? 
17. What are the facilities in the cardiology department? 
 Our cardiology department offers ECGs, angioplasty, bypass surgeries, echocardiograms, 
and other heart-related treatments. We also have a dedicated cardiac ICU. 
18. Do you provide physiotherapy or rehabilitation services? 
Yes, we offer physiotherapy and rehabilitation services for post-surgical recovery, sports 
injuries, and chronic pain management. Would you like to book an appointment? 
 
 19. Do you have an Oncology department? 
Yes, we have an Oncology department specializing in chemotherapy, radiation therapy, 
and surgical oncology. Would you like to book an appointment? 
 
 20. Do you offer mental health services? 
Yes, our Psychiatry & Mental Health department provides therapy, counseling, and 
psychiatric treatments for anxiety, depression, and other conditions. Would you like to 
book an appointment? 
 
 21. Do you provide nephrology and dialysis services? 
Yes, our Nephrology department offers kidney disease management and dialysis services. 
Would you like to book an appointment? 
 
 22. Do you provide pulmonology services? 
Yes, our Pulmonology department specializes in lung diseases, asthma management, and 
ventilator support. Would you like to book an appointment? 

19. How do I get admitted to the hospital? 
 For planned admissions, you need a doctor’s recommendation. For emergencies, our 
emergency team will guide you upon arrival. You’ll need to complete the admission 
formalities at the reception. 
20. What are the charges for private rooms/general wards? 
Room charges vary based on the type of room: general ward, semi-private, or private room. 
21. What documents do I need for admission? 
 You’ll need valid ID proof, doctor’s prescription, and any medical reports related to your 
condition. If using insurance, bring your insurance card and approval documents. 
22. Can I pre-book a room for a planned surgery? 
 Yes, you can pre-book a room by contacting our admission desk. A deposit may be 
required for reservation. 
23. Do you accept insurance? 
 Yes, we accept most major insurance providers.  
24. Do you provide food for admitted patients? 
 Yes, we provide nutritious meals based on the patient’s dietary requirements. Special 
meal plans are available for diabetic, cardiac, and other medical conditions. 
25. Is there Wi-Fi available for patients and visitors? 
 Yes, we offer free Wi-Fi for admitted patients and visitors. The login details can be 
obtained from the reception or nursing station. 
26. Do you offer cashless hospitalization? 
 Yes, we have cashless facilities for patients covered under approved insurance providers. 
Please check with our billing department for eligibility. 
27. What payment modes are accepted? 
 We accept cash, credit/debit cards, bank transfers, and insurance payments. 
28. Can I book a test online? 
 Yes, you can book a test through clicking on our live agent. Would you like to book an 
appointment? 
29. What are the charges for blood tests/MRI scans/X-rays? 
 Prices vary based on the type of test. 

30. How long does it take to get test results? 
 Routine tests are available within 24 hours, while advanced tests like MRI scans may take 
up to 2 days. 
31. Can I get my test reports online? 
 Yes, test reports are available online through our hospital portal. You’ll receive a link to 
download your reports on your registered contact number. 
32. Is there a pharmacy in the hospital? 
 Yes, we have a 24/7 in-house pharmacy where you can purchase prescribed 
medications. 
33. Do you provide home delivery of medicines? 
 Yes, we offer home delivery for medicines. You can place an order through our app or call 
our pharmacy. 
34. Can I get a refill for my prescription? 
 Yes, if your prescription is valid, you can get a refill at our pharmacy. 
35. Can family members stay with the patient overnight? 
Yes, for private rooms, one attendant is allowed to stay overnight. In general wards, 
overnight stays are not permitted. 
36. What are the rules for visitors in the ICU? 
ICU visits are limited to 4pm to 5pm, and only one visitor is allowed at a time. Visitors 
must follow hygiene and safety guidelines. 
37. Do you provide interpreter services for non-English speakers? 
Yes, we have interpreter services for multiple languages. Please inform us in advance so 
we can arrange assistance. 
38. Do you have a waiting room for visitors and kids? 
Yes, we have a comfortable waiting area for visitors, equipped with seating, water 
dispensers, and television. We also have a separate kids' area with toys and books to 
keep children engaged while they wait. 
39. Can I get a medical certificate or discharge summary after treatment? 
 Yes, a medical certificate or discharge summary is provided upon request. You can 
collect it from the medical records department after discharge. 

40. Do you offer home healthcare services? 
Yes, we provide home healthcare services like nursing care, physiotherapy, and lab 
sample collection. You can book these services through our hospital helpline. 
41. What are the hospital’s operating hours? Our hospital operates 24/7 for emergency 
services. However, the Outpatient Department (OPD) operates from 8am to 12pm in the 
morning and 3pm to 7pm in the evening, depending on the department. You can call us to 
check specific timings for your required service. 
Q: What payment modes and insurance options do you accept? 
We accept cash, credit/debit cards, bank transfers, and approved insurance 
policies. For insured patients, we also offer cashless treatment if yourprovider is on our approved list.  
 
 Q: How do I get admitted, and what documents are required? 
For planned admissions, you’ll need a doctor’s recommendation and must complete 
formalities at the reception. For emergencies, walk in and our team will assist you. Please 
carry: 
•  Valid photo ID 
•  Doctor’s prescription 
•  Insurance card (if applicable) 
 
 Q: Do you accept health insurance and offer cashless treatment? 
Yes, we accept most major insurance providers, and we offer cashless hospitalization 
for eligible plans. Please check with our billing desk for confirmation on your specific 
policy. 
 
 
Q: Do you have a pharmacy, and do you offer home delivery of medicines? 
Yes, we have a 24/7 in-house pharmacy, and we also offer home delivery. You can place 
orders via our live agent or call the pharmacy directly on +1 999 854  2194 
 
 Q: Are diagnostic tests available, and how can I get results? 
Yes, we offer blood tests, X-rays, MRIs, ultrasounds, and more. 
•  Routine test results: within 24 hours 
•  Advanced imaging: within 48 hours 
 You’ll receive them in your mail, based on the contact details you have provided, or 
you can collect it from our radiology desk. 
Q: What types of imaging or radiology tests do you offer? 
We provide X-rays, CT scans, MRIs, ultrasounds, and other imaging services. All imaging 
is performed by trained technicians and supervised by experienced radiologists. Want me 
to book a slot for you? 
 
 Q: How do I book an imaging or diagnostic test? 
You can book a test by requesting a call back or calling our helpline +1 999 854  2194. We’ll 
confirm the available slots and any prep required for your scan. Do you need help with 
booking the appointment? 
 
 Q: What are the charges for blood tests, MRIs, or X-rays? 
The cost depends on the type of test. For example, routine blood tests are more 
affordable, while MRI and CT scans are higher priced. Would you like someone from our 
billing team to call you with exact costs? 

Q: Can I access my reports online? 
Yes, your lab and imaging reports are available through our hospital portal. A secure link 
will be sent to your registered contact number and email id once the report is ready. 
 
 Q: Can I get a discharge summary or medical certificate? 
Yes. Once discharged, you can collect your discharge summary or medical certificate 
from the Medical Records Department.  
Q: Do I need a prescription to get an X-ray or scan done? 
Yes, a doctor’s prescription is required for any diagnostic scan or X-ray. This ensures 
appropriate testing and safety. Want me to help you schedule a consult first? 
 
 Q: What if I need test prep instructions like fasting or medication 
guidelines? 
For accurate guidance, I recommend speaking directly with our medical team. Kindly help 
me with your name and contact number so our team can reach out to you. Our doctors will 
explain everything clearly based on your test type. 
 
  
 OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT (OPD) 
 
 Timings: Morning 8am to 12pm, Evening 3pm to 7pm 
 
 Our OPD is divided into several specialized departments to ensure you receive the best 
care. Our OPD includes: 
General Medicine – Chronic disease management, preventive care. 
Cardiology – Heart failure treatment, interventional procedures. 
Neurology – Stroke management, epilepsy treatment. 
Orthopedics – Joint replacement, sports injuries. 

Pediatrics – Childcare, vaccinations. 
Gynaecology & Maternity – High-risk pregnancy, fertility treatments. 
Dermatology – Cosmetic and reconstructive procedures. 
ENT – Sinus treatment, hearing loss management. 
Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation – Post-op recovery, sports therapy. 
Radiology & Diagnostics – MRI, CT scans, cancer screening. 
Would you like to book an appointment? 
 
  
 Department Specialists at Central Hospital 
 
General Medicine 
We have over 10 specialists in General Medicine. 
Head of Department: Doctor Michael Thompson, a senior physician with over 16 years of 
experience in internal medicine and preventive healthcare. 
Expert in managing chronic conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and infectious 
diseases. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
Cardiology 
We have over 6 cardiologists specializing in heart-related treatments. 
Head of Department: Doctor Sofia Martinez, an expert with over 16 years of experience, 
having performed over 15,000 cardiac procedures, including complex angioplasties. 
Specializes in heart failure management and interventional cardiology. 
Services include ECGs, echocardiograms, angioplasty, and bypass surgeries. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
Neurology 
We have a team of 8+ neurologists providing expert care. 
Head of Department: Doctor Hiroshi Tanaka, a leading neurologist with 16 years of 
experience. 
He specializes in stroke treatment, epilepsy management, and neuromuscular disorders. 
Renowned for his research in epilepsy and multiple sclerosis treatment. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
 
Orthopedics 
Our team of 6+ orthopedic surgeons specializes in bone and joint care. 
Head of Department: Doctor Elena Petrova, with over 20 years of experience, having 
performed over 30,000 orthopedic surgeries, including robotic-assisted joint 
replacements.  
She is an expert in sports medicine and complex spinal surgeries. Services include joint 
replacement, fracture management, and sports injury treatment. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
Pediatrics 
We have a dedicated team of 8+ pediatricians. 
Head of Department: Doctor Samuel Carter, an expert in child healthcare with over 20 
years of experience. Specialized care for newborns, children, and adolescents and in 
pediatric endocrinology and neonatal intensive care. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
 Gynaecology & Maternity 
A team of 5+ gynaecologists specializing in women’s health. 
Head of Department: Doctor Maria Martinez, with 16 years of experience in high-risk 
pregnancy management and advanced laparoscopic procedures. 
Recognized for expertise in fertility treatments and minimally invasive gynaecologic 
surgeries. 
We have fully equipped maternity ward with labor rooms and NICU. 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
Dermatology 
We have a team of 7+ dermatologists. 
Head of Department: Doctor James Becker, a leading expert in skin treatments and 
cosmetic dermatology.  Specialist in anti-aging treatments and reconstructive 
dermatologic procedures. 
Services include acne treatment, laser therapy, skin allergy management and etc. 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
ENT (Ear, Nose & Throat) 
Our team of 5+ ENT specialists provides comprehensive ear, nose, and throat care. 

Head of Department: Doctor Linda Bergström, an ENT specialist with 16 years of 
experience. 
Treatments include sinusitis, tonsillectomy, and hearing loss management. 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation 
A team of expert physiotherapists specializing in post-surgical recovery. 
Head of Department: Doctor Felipe Vasquez, with over 25 years of experience in 
musculoskeletal rehabilitation and pain management. 
Specialist in spinal rehabilitation and neurological physiotherapy. 
Services include sports injury therapy, pain management, and rehabilitation. 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
Radiology & Diagnostics 
We provide MRI, CT scans, X-rays, ultrasound, and blood tests.  
Head of Department: Doctor Aisha Khan, a radiologist with 16 years of experience in 
diagnostic imaging and interventional radiology. 
Recognized for expertise in cancer screening and minimally invasive procedures. 
Test reports are available online within 24 hours for routine tests and 48 hours for 
advanced scans. 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
  
Emergency Medicine 
Our emergency medicine department operates 24/7 with dedicated trauma care 
specialists and life-saving procedures. 
Head of Department: Doctor Robert Hayes, an expert in critical care and emergency 
response with 18 years of experience. 
Services include: Advanced trauma care, Cardiac and stroke emergency interventions and 
24/7 specialist availability 
Do you want to book an appointment? 
 
  
Oncology 

We provide comprehensive cancer treatment, including chemotherapy, radiation therapy, 
and surgical oncology. 
Head of Department: Doctor Isabelle Laurent, a leading oncologist with 20 years of 
experience in cancer treatment and research. 
Specialties: Chemotherapy and radiation therapy, Immunotherapy and targeted cancer 
treatments and Palliative care for advanced-stage patients 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
 Nephrology & Dialysis 
Our nephrology department specializes in kidney care and dialysis services for patients 
with kidney disorders. 
Head of Department: Doctor Ahmed Patel, a senior nephrologist with 22 years of expertise 
in kidney disease management. 
Services include: Dialysis (Hemodialysis and Peritoneal Dialysis), Kidney transplant 
consultation and Hypertension and chronic kidney disease management 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
Gastroenterology 
Our gastroenterology department specializes in digestive disorders, liver diseases, and 
advanced endoscopic procedures. 
Head of Department: Doctor Emily Chan, a gastroenterologist with 18 years of experience 
in digestive and liver health. 
Services include: Endoscopy and colonoscopy, Liver disease treatment (Hepatitis, 
Cirrhosis), Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and gastrointestinal disorders 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
  
Psychiatry & Mental Health Services 
Our psychiatry department offers mental health support, counseling, and psychiatric 
treatments. 
Head of Department: Doctor Benjamin Ross, a senior psychiatrist with 25 years of 
experience in mental health care. 
Services include: Counseling and therapy, Medication management for mental health 
conditions, Stress and anxiety disorder treatments 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment. 
 
 
 
Pulmonology 
Our pulmonology department specializes in lung disease treatments, asthma care, and 
ventilator support. 
Head of Department: Doctor Elena Costa, a pulmonologist with 20 years of experience in 
respiratory medicine. 
Services include: Asthma and COPD management, Lung infection and tuberculosis 
treatment, Advanced ventilator support and critical lung care 
Let me know if you want to book an appointment

 

CENTRAL HOSPITAL APPOINTMENT BOOKING FLOW 
APPOINTMENT BOOKING 
 
You are a smart, friendly, and helpful appointment booking assistant. Your goal is to help users book appointments by checking availability and collecting their details. You are capable of calling tools to fetch available date and time slots using fetchAvailableSlots(). 
 
--- 
 
1. Department ➝ Doctor/Entity ➝ Intent ➝ Date ➝ Time Period ➝ Time Slot ➝ Collect Details ➝ Confirm & Book 
 

call tool 'fetchDepartments' to fetch available departments.
Ask user to select from these departments.
call tool 'fetchEntities' to fetch available entities/person name working in that department.
Ask user to select from these Entity.

 
Tool 1) fetchAvailableSlots() 
 
Returns a list of available dates and corresponding time slots: 
 
{ 
 
  "available_dates": [ 
 
    { "date": "YYYY-MM-DD", "slots": ["HH:MM AM/PM", ...] }, 
 
    ... 
 
  ] 
 
} 
 
  
 
Tool 2) storeAppointment() 
 
Stores appointment data in the database and sends a confirmation notification to the user. 

